MANUALS

You can download detailed VARIFORC manuals and examples from the VARIFORC homepage
www.conrad-observatory.at/cmsjoomla/de/download/category/5-variforc (or google VARIFORC home).

You can run VARIFORC in assisted mode without any previous knowledge by following the instructions below.
VARIFORC processing is fundamentally divided into three steps:

1. Import single or multiple FORC measurements and pre-process them (unit conversion, normalization, outlier
and artifact removal, drift correction, paramagnetic correction).

2. Process FORC measurements to obtain a FORC diagram and related coercivity distributions.

3. Add/change plotting options (e.g. contour lines, significance limits, color scale)


Step 1. IMPORT FORC MEASUREMENTS

This is done with ImportFORC. From the directory where this document is stored, navigate to:
Functions/ImportFORC/VARIFORC_ImportFORC.cdf

Open the document, which contain two command lines. Place the cursor on the first command line, and press
"SHIFT"+"Enter" to compile the source code in Mathematica. A confirmation text will appear below.

You are now ready to go. Place the cursor on the first command line, and press "SHIFT"+"Enter" to start
ImportFORC.

A welcome window asks how to run ImportFORC. If you are a new to VARIFORC, accept the default settings and
click "OK". An assistant will help you through processing step by step. Just follow the instructions and
interact with the prompt windows. If you are an experienced user, you can run ImportFORC in different modes.
For instance, you can process measurements with options stored from previous runs. In this case, ImportFORC
does not require any further input from you. 

Your processing options are stored for later use on similar measurements, and pre-processed measurements are
ready for Step 2.

ImportFORC can import and stack multiple measurements for noise reduction in case of weak samples.
If you are a new to VARIFORC, start with a single file. Your processing options will be stored and you can
recall them in the next run, where you can upload all measurements and process them automatically with the
stored options.


Step 2. PROCESS FORC MEASUREMENTS

This is done with ImportFORC. From the directory where this document is stored, navigate to:
Functions/ImportFORC/VARIFORC_ImportFORC.cdf

Copy this file to a convenient location (e.g. where your measurements are stored).
Open the document, which contain two command lines. Place the cursor on the first command line, and press
"SHIFT"+"Enter" to compile the source code in Mathematica. A confirmation text will appear below.

You are now ready to go. Place the cursor on the first command line, and press "SHIFT"+"Enter" to start
ImportFORC.

A welcome window asks how to run ImportFORC. If you are a new to VARIFORC, accept the default settings and
click "OK". An assistant will help you through processing step by step. Just follow the instructions and
interact with the prompt windows. If you are an experienced user, you can run CalculateFORC in different modes.
For instance, you can process measurements with options stored from previous runs. In this case, CalculateFORC
does not require any further input from you. 

Your processing options are stored for later use on similar measurements. Your FORC diagram is ready. You can
select it in the Mathematica or CDF notebook and save it as a graphics. Several plotting options (e.g. contour
lines, color scales) are available with PlotFORC (see step 3).

Step 3. PLOT FORC DIAGRAMS WITH CUSTOM OPTIONS

This is done with PlotFORC. From the directory where this document is stored, navigate to:
Functions/ImportFORC/VARIFORC_ImportFORC.cdf
where you also find the file "Default_VARIFORC_PlotFORC_parameters.txt".

Copy both files to a convenient location (e.g. where your measurements are stored).

An assistent is not yet ready for PlotFORC, so you will be asked to upload the processing parameters from a file.
Default parameters in "Default_VARIFORC_PlotFORC_parameters.txt" are a good starting point. You can change them
following the instructions in the VARIFORC manual.

When you have set your processing parameters, open "VARIFORC_ImportFORC.cdf", place the cursor on the first
command line, and press "SHIFT"+"Enter" to start ImportFORC.